docs/web_server.md, before:

# Web server

A web server can be activated. This allows the use of a REST api to access various features. The server only handles up to HTTP/1.1, without SSL support.

## Activation

You can activate the web server by going to `Configuration > Emulation > Enable Web Server`

## REST API

By default, the server listens for incoming connection on `localhost:8080`. The port can be changed in the same settings above.

These GET methods are available:

| URL | Function |
| :- | :- |
| [/api/v1/gpu/vram/raw](http://localhost:8080/api/v1/gpu/vram/raw) | Dump VRAM  |
| [/api/v1/cpu/ram/raw](http://localhost:8080/api/v1/cpu/ram/raw) | Dump RAM |

The following POST methods are available:

`/api/v1/gpu/vram/raw?x=<value>&y=<value>&width=<value>&height=<value>`

The above needs to also send a form with binary contents. This will partially update the VRAM with the corresponding pixels. The updated rectangle has to be within the 1024x512 16bpp VRAM. The pixels need to be in 16bpp format, meaning the server is expecting exactly `width * height * 2` bytes in the form data. The server will properly parse requests with `Content-Type: multipart/form-data`, but raw bytes in the request body without this header is also acceptable. Any invalid query will result in a 400 error.

`/api/v1/cpu/ram/raw?offset=<value>&size=<value>`

The above needs to also send a form with binary contents, which will update the RAM at the specified offset. Offset is expected to be a number from [0, 0x1FFFFF] in case of running redux with 2MB RAM, or [0, 0x7FFFFF] in case the 8MB memory expansion is enabled. The value of size + offset must not exceed the total space in the RAM.

`/api/v1/cpu/cache?function=<value>`

| Value | Function |
| :- | :- |
| flush | Flushes the CPU cache |

`/api/v1/execution-flow?function=<value>&type=<value>`

| Value | Type | Function |
| :- | :- | :- |
| pause | - | Pauses the emulator |
| start | - | Starts/Resumes the emulator |
| resume | - | Starts/Resumes the emulator |
| reset | hard | Hard resets the emulator |
| reset | soft | Soft resets the emulator |

Commit message:

Describe map post and exec-flow get

docs/web_server.md, after:

# Web server

A web server can be activated. This allows the use of a REST api to access various features. The server only handles up to HTTP/1.1, without SSL support.

## Activation

You can activate the web server by going to `Configuration > Emulation > Enable Web Server`

## REST API

By default, the server listens for incoming connection on `localhost:8080`. The port can be changed in the same settings above.

These GET methods are available:

| URL | Function |
| :- | :- |
| [/api/v1/gpu/vram/raw](http://localhost:8080/api/v1/gpu/vram/raw) | Dump VRAM  |
| [/api/v1/cpu/ram/raw](http://localhost:8080/api/v1/cpu/ram/raw) | Dump RAM |
| [/api/v1/execution-flow](http://localhost:8080/api/v1/execution-flow) | Emulation Status |

The following POST methods are available:

`/api/v1/gpu/vram/raw?x=<value>&y=<value>&width=<value>&height=<value>`

The above needs to also send a form with binary contents. This will partially update the VRAM with the corresponding pixels. The updated rectangle has to be within the 1024x512 16bpp VRAM. The pixels need to be in 16bpp format, meaning the server is expecting exactly `width * height * 2` bytes in the form data. The server will properly parse requests with `Content-Type: multipart/form-data`, but raw bytes in the request body without this header is also acceptable. Any invalid query will result in a 400 error.

`/api/v1/cpu/ram/raw?offset=<value>&size=<value>`

The above needs to also send a form with binary contents, which will update the RAM at the specified offset. Offset is expected to be a number from [0, 0x1FFFFF] in case of running redux with 2MB RAM, or [0, 0x7FFFFF] in case the 8MB memory expansion is enabled. The value of size + offset must not exceed the total space in the RAM.

`/api/v1/assembly/symbols`

The above expects a `.map` file with symbols and addresses, which will be loaded in redux. The map file should contain one pair of `symbol address` for each line. e.g `Foo 80010000` would load the symbol `Foo` in the address `0x80010000`.

`/api/v1/cpu/cache?function=<value>`

| Value | Function |
| :- | :- |
| flush | Flushes the CPU cache |

`/api/v1/execution-flow?function=<value>&type=<value>`

| Value | Type | Function |
| :- | :- | :- |
| pause | - | Pauses the emulator |
| start | - | Starts/Resumes the emulator |
| resume | - | Starts/Resumes the emulator |
| reset | hard | Hard resets the emulator |
| reset | soft | Soft resets the emulator |
